02/03/23

Structuring  Collection with Products and Categories

 Product:
  Products are the basic element of our collections and sales catalog.
  Products are the data structure that represents items of merchandise ie) they represent the real time products which can be sold in market.
  eg.Camera,mobile etc.
  They are imported from third party systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning(ERP),Product Information systems(PiM) or by file import.
  They can be created and edited manually in backoffice.

 Creating and Nesting Categories:
  Products can be grouped into categories in order to maintain a hierarchical structure.
  Catagories can also be grouped into super categories and subcategories.

          Eg.             SystemComponents
                           -----|------
                          |            |
                      Processors     MotherBoards
                    -----|-----
                    |          |
                  Intel       AMD
                |   |   |        |
               Products          Products

 Structuring Catalogs:
  The structuring of the catagories depends on the purpose of the catalog.
  If we create categories for user navigation of webshop frontend, we should make it as such it eases the user interface.

 Creating Categories
  Categories, like products, are usually imported from third-party sources such as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems,
  PIM systems, or by file import.
  They can also be created and edited manually in Backoffice Framework.

  Procedure
   Navigate to Catalog  Categories.
   Click  to open theCreate New Category window.
   Fill in all mandatory fields. It is recommended not to use the special characters “<” or “>” within the Category Name or Code (Identifier) fields. The tags result in error when connecting to the CDS Catalog service endpoint.
   Click Finish.
   In the collection browser, select your newly created category and go to the Category Structure tab.
   In the Category Structure tab, insert the category within the target hierarchical category structure
   Select one or more Supercategories to group this category together with comparable categories below one or more supercategories.
   Select one or more Subordinate Categories to group other categories below this category; consequently the latter category becomes the supercategory of the selected ones.
   Select one or more Included Products to logically group products in this category.
   In the Multimedia tab, specify a category image and other media relevant for this category. You can also use the Additional Multimedia Objects group to manage product images that belong to products contained in this category.
   Only SAP Commerce administrators can access the Administration tab. It provides editing data including primary key, changes, and copies.

 Controlling the visibility of the Category:
  The visibility of Category is seen if we explicitly define the usergroups or users who can access the catagory and the catagory is visible
  if it contains visible products.
  The visibility of the Category controls the visibility of its subcategories and its products under it.

  Procedure
  On the Backoffice Administration Cockpit, access Catalog  Categories to display the list of categories.
  Select the category that you want to update.
  In the General tab, go to the Category Visibility section.
  Update the Visible to list by adding one or more user groups or individual users in the fields provided.
   we can also control the category visibility using personalization rules that check the category settings to verify which
   users are authorized.
   Click Save to continue action. Otherwise, click Refresh

 Adding and Managing Products in Categories
  Categories and products, including their category assignment, are imported from third-party sources, such as from ERP systems, from
  PIM systems, or by file import.
  Products can also be assigned to categories manually in the Backoffice Framework.

  Procedure
  On the Backoffice Administration Cockpit, access Catalog  Products to display the list of products.
  Select the product that you want to add to a category.
  Click Category System
  In the Categories Containing This Product section, define one or more Supercategories in the fields provided.
  Click Save to add the product to the category. Otherwise, click Refresh.

 Adding Media Items to a Category
  Media items, such as product images, are usually referenced by the product.
  On the Multimedia tab of the product editor you can reference images and other multimedia items.

  Procedure
  On the Backoffice Administration Cockpit, access Catalog  Categories to display the list of categories.
  Select the category where you want to add the media item.
  Click the Multimedia menu.
  Define a visual for the category in the Images section.
  Go to the Additional Multimedia Objects section to reference media items related to the products in the category.
  Click Save to add the media item. Otherwise, click Refresh.


  Catalogs and Catalog Versions:

  Categories are contained in catalog versions.
  A catalog version can represent the collection of products you offer at a certain point in time.
  To maintain your collection within a basic process, you typically contain two or more catalog versions in an object called a catalog.
  For example, while you can have one catalog version for editing the content (the Staged version), you can use another catalog version for
  propagation as a web shop (the Online version).
   Holding Your Category Structure in Catalog Versions:
    To use a category structure to represent your collection—or parts of it—you contain it in catalog versions.
    A catalog version is a container for categories that contains products in one or multiple categories.
    A SAP Commerce catalog version item is similar to the concept of a product catalog.
    Contrary to this concept, a SAP Commerce catalog item is a container for multiple catalog versions.

   Adding a Category to a Catalog Version
    We can add categories to a catalog version by different methods:

   Assign a category to another catalog version in Backoffice. For information, see Adding a Category to a Catalog Version.
   Add a category to a supercategory of another catalog version. For information, see Structuring Your Collection with Products and
   Categories.
   The category, one of its supercategories, or one of its catalog versions is synchronized. For information about synchronization,
   see Synchronizing Catalog Versions

   Controlling Visibility and Access to a Catalog Version:

    The visibility of a catalog version in a web front end, such as a webshop, is determined by the visibility of the categories
    included in the catalog version.

    To set access rights for a catalog version, go to the Permissions tab of the catalog version editor.
    we can edit the lists for User accounts with write permissions and User accounts with read permissions.

    For each list, you can add one or more user groups or individual users.

    Procedure

    In the Backoffice navigation tree, click Catalog  Catalog Versions.
    The Catalog Versions collection browser opens up with the Staged catalog version listed.
    Click the Staged catalog version.
    The Catalog Versions collection browser displays on the CATALOG VERSION tab.

    Click CONTENT to switch to the CONTENT tab.
    In the CONTENT tab you have access to the Create a new category function available from the Top level categories field.

    Click Create a new category.
    The Create a new category wizard opens up.

    Complete the Catalog version and Identifier fields and click DONE

  Adding a Catalog Version to a Catalog in Backoffice:

   Procedure
   In the Backoffice navigation tree, click Catalog  Catalogs.
   The Catalogs collection browser opens up with the Default catalog.

   Click the Default catalog.
   The default catalog editor area shows up on the COMMON tab. Notice the Create new Catalog version field.

   Click Create new Catalog version.
   The Create new Catalog version wizard opens up

   Complete the required fields in the wizard.
   Click … in the Catalog field and choose our catalog

   Complete the Catalog Version field.
   Click Done.
   Click SAVE in the collection browser to save the changes in your catalog.

  Managing Multiple Product Catalogs in a Catalog System:

  An example of a Catalog system is , there will be two input catalogs called Supplier A and Supplier B before a master Catalog.
  Below the master catalog there will be three catalogs called Country A,Country B,Country C.

 Defining  Catalog Maintenance Process:

  Before setting up a catalog system, SAP Commerce recommends that we define our catalog maintenance process.
  This is important because a catalog system should reflect your organizational structures and responsibilities.

  For example, you may want to include a country-specific web page owned by a foreign subsidiary.
  Typically, you manage such a page in a separate catalog, which receives the basic collection data from a master catalog to be
  edited and approved locally.

  Such a country-specific catalog can have its own staged and online versions for editing and propagation.

  Specific access rights ensure writing permissions for the local team, however several headquarter's representatives may have reading or
  writing access for supporting tasks.

    Example of a complex catalog system.

     It consists of multiple input catalogs (top), a master catalog, and two country-specific catalog subsystems
     (for United Kingdom and France).
      The example assumes that most output catalogs (bottom) are actively managed by Brand Managers.
      However, the Vendors output catalog has an additional process step for audience-specific modifications.
      Arrows indicate synchronizations between the subordinate catalog versions.
  Setting up Catalog System:
    To set up a catalog system, you simply create the required catalogs and connect them by synchronizing jobs between
     catalog versions.
    You organize the catalogs involved in such a way so as to establish a synchronization process from input to output.
    Synchronization operations among catalogs are realized between the contained catalog versions.

  Synchronizing Catalog Versions:
    A synchronizing operation copies specified content from a source catalog version to a target catalog version, for example
    a staged to an online catalog version. That means, the items referenced by the target catalog versions are overwritten to match the
    items referenced by the source catalog version.
    A synchronised operation can be applied to entire catalog version and can be done to selected categories or products.
    Two synchronizing operations can be done inorder to bidirectional update procedures.
    But the default is the synchronizing operation can be applied from source to target only.
    By default, only items referenced by the source catalog version are synchronized, and those items of the target catalog
    version that are not referenced are not affected.
     For example, let's say the target catalog version consists of the contents of two other catalogs, clothes and hardware.
     If the hardware catalog is synchronized, the clothes catalog-related part of the target catalog version remains unchanged.

  Synchronizing Operations in Catalog Versions within a Catalog:
   There are specific use cases for synchronizing catalog versions that are part of a single catalog
   Seasonal Switch
   For example, you can use this for switching from one catalog version to another catalog version: Let's say, a catalog for clothes has five catalog versions:

   Spring
   Summer
   Fall
   Winter
   Online
   The Online catalog version is in use for the web shop front end. By synchronizing from Summer to Online, you can switch the product
   line in the shop frontend to the summer edition.
   Synchronizing from Fall to Online replaces the summer product line with the fall product line, and so on.

   Separated Input Catalog Versions for Different Content Types:

    To realize distributed import scenarios, you can use separate catalog versions, for example for different content types.

    Let's say, you receive your product data from different sources:

    Product names and descriptions are loaded from CSV files provided by a supplier.
    Product images are loaded from a file system maintained by an advertising agency.
    Product prices are retrieved from an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.
    Each source provides a type of product data with each data set related to a defined product.
    Each product data type is loaded into a different catalog version to enable different loading and clearing routines.
    These different catalog versions are consolidated by synchronizing operations to a master catalog representing a single source of truth.

    Defining Product Attributes:
     A developer always does data modelling and product modelling before getting into coding.

     Product Attributes are defined in two ways 1.Typing method(using items.xml) 2.Classification system


     Catalog Guide:

      The catalog extension provides catalog functionality for holding, structuring, and managing products and product information.
      SAP Commerce represents catalogs by a type structure as shown in the following diagram: a catalog can contain a number of
      catalog version objects, each of which can contain a number of category objects.
      Category objects can contain catalog objects, product objects or classification objects.

    Catalog View and Editing Rights:
     In addition to the platform type system access rights, the catalog extension runs a second evaluation of restrictions on
     catalog access rights.
     These restrictions do not interfere with the access of catalogs or catalog versions.
     They are meant to restrict employee rights to manipulate a catalog version content, such as products, categories, prices, others
     The catalog extension uses personalization rules (search restrictions) to evaluate catalog-editing rights.

    Catalog Visibility in a Web Application:
     Visibility of Products for Customers:
      A catalog is a list of products that are available, along with product prices (among other attributes).
      The catalog extension also allows you to block specified customers from viewing specific products, even if the products are
      generally available. This functionality is called visibility.
      Visibility Checks for Product

      The steps are:

      Does the catalog URL pattern match?
      Is the catalog version active?
      Is the category visible?
      Products are usually put into categories. If a category is not visible to a customer or customer group, the products
      contained in the category will also not be visible.

      Does the date range match?
      If a product is visible or not can also depend on the current date. For example, selling ice hockey equipment
      in June may not be very successful. Therefore, we can limit a product visibility to a certain date range.
      The product is not visible before the start of that date range or after its end.

      Is the product approved?
      A product is always in one of three possible states: check, unapproved, and approved. An approved product is visible
       if all other checks pass, a product set to check or unapproved is not.

     Modeling Product Variants:
      When we work on products we need to model Product Variants ie) Product which differ in certain aspects.Eg. Shirts which differ in size.

     Using a Subtype of Product and a Subtype of VariantProduct:

      If there are two items such as Product and Variant Product. MyProduct and My variantProduct extends Product and MyProduct respectively.
      As a result,MyVariantProduct will not get Product's Attributes, So we have to make VariantProduct extend Product.MyProduct extend
      Product.MyVariantProduct extend VariantProduct.

     Using a Subtype of VariantProduct in Combination with Classification:
       Eg.We have a base item called Product and we have two items MyVariant1 and MyVariant2 that extends from Product.We can define
        Classification Classes and their attributes and make them available to the items assigned.

     Building Variants through Categorization:
       A further approach to building variants is by using SAP Commerce's categorization functionality.
       Eg,there are the categories Size S, Size M, Size L, and Size XL on the one hand, and the categories Color black, Color blue,
        Color green, and Color red on the other. By putting MyT-Shirt into the categories Size L and Color red, MyT-Shirt is marked
        as a red t-shirt in size L.

   Synchronizing Catalogs:
     The single catalog that is visible to your customers is called online, and the catalogs that are not visible to customers are staged.
     A standard synchronizing operation is the act of updating the online catalog with at least one of the staged catalogs.
     If you synchronize a staged catalog, the online catalog will then contain all values from that staged catalog.

     A synchronizing operation can be applied to an entire catalog version, but it can also be applied to selected categories or products.
     There are three Synchronization status which represents the status of synchronization,
      Green mark- Indicates that a source item is synchronized with the target item.
       Red mark:Indicates that a source item has been changed and needs synchronization with the target item.
       Error mark: Indicates that an initial synchronization is needed. The source catalog version has never been synchronized with
        the target catalog version. Since synchronizing single items is disabled, you need to synchronize an entire catalog version.

   Classification
   Classification enables  to define product attributes in a way different to the typing method.

   Classification-based attributes are called category features, sometimes also referred to as classification attributes.

   Through classification, we can flexibly allocate category features that may change frequently.

    Defining and modifying them is easy because they are managed independently of the product type.

   Available category features can be organized independently from product catalog structures in separate classification systems,
    where they can be structured into classifying categories.

   Using classifying categories, you can assign a category feature to one or multiple product categories used in catalogs.
   That means that all category features of the classifying categories are available within all products included in the
   assigned product categories.
   In addition, each category feature assigned to a category of a catalog structure is inherited by all subcategories.

   Classification helps simplify the management of product data independently of product catalogs or product definitions

   A classification system's independence from product catalogs, combined with the ability to inherit features from higher
    levels within its classification structure, makes it easy to assign product-related attributes.

   A classification system takes a form similar to that of ordinary product catalogs, that is,
   a classification system has one or more classification system versions that themselves contain any number of
   classifying categories organized in a tree-like structure.

    Classification System Version
    A classification system version can contain any number of classifying categories. The ACTIVE flag on the version makes it
     possible to define which version's assigned category features are displayed in the product catalog.

    Classifying categories hold the product information. The position of a classifying category within its tree structure
    indicates the level of detail of product information it has; more general data is provided closer to the root and more detailed
    data is provided further down the tree.


Reference:
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_COMMERCE/d0224eca81e249cb821f2cdf45a82ace/8b4a208b8669101487c784b5f8557c30.html





























