13/03/23
Classification

Working with classification:

 Adding a Product to a Classifying Category:

 Backoffice Administration Cockpit enables us to add a product to a classifying category.

 Procedure
 Log into Backoffice.
 Go to Catalog -> Classification Systems -> Classifying Categories.
 Select a category to which you want to add your product.
 Go to the Category Structure tab.
 Scroll down to the Subcategories and Products section.
 Click the ... icon under Included Products to display a list of the products.
 Select the check mark next to the products you wish to add to the category. You can select more than one product.
 Click Select to close the window and add the products.
 Click Save to save your assignment.

 Classifying a Product Category
 We can classify a product category in Backoffice Administration Cockpit.

 Procedure
 Log in to Backoffice.
 Go to Catalog  Classification Systems -> Classification Categories.
 Select a classification category from the list, or search for the classification category using the Search field.
 Go to the Category Structure tab for the selected classification category.
 Click the ... icon next to the empty field under Supercategories or Subcategories and Products to open the classification categories list.
 Click the checkmark next to the required category or product by clicking the Reference Search window to select one or more categories.
 Click Select.

 Creating Category Features
 The Classification functionality of SAP Commerce allows us to assign attributes more dynamically than using the SAP Commerce's type system

 Creating Category Features
 We can create new category features in Backoffice Administration Cockpit.

 Procedure
 Log into Backoffice.
 Go to Catalog -> Classification Systems -> Classifying Categories.
 Select the classifying category in which you'd like to create a category feature from the search result list.
 Go to the Class Attributes tab.
 Click Create New Category Feature.
 A pop-up appears.
 Select a feature descriptor for the new category feature from the available choices in the Feature Descriptor menu.
 If the required feature descriptor is not available, you can create it. For more information, see Creating a Feature Descriptor.
 Click Next until we reach the final screen, then click Done.
 Click Save to save our new category feature.

  Creating a Feature Descriptor
  We can create new feature descriptors for your category features in Backoffice Administration Cockpit.

  Procedure
  Log in to Backoffice.
  Go to Catalog -> Classification Systems.
  Click + to open the Create New Feature Descriptor window.
  Enter an identifier name for the classification feature into the Identifier field.
  Select the classification system version which is to hold the classification feature from the Classification System Version menu.
  Click Done.
  We created a new feature descriptor.

  Creating Classification Systems
  In SAP Commerce, we can create classification systems, blank classification systems that we can use to create a classification
   hierarchy, and predefined classification systems.

  Procedure
  Log in to Backoffice Administration Cockpit.
  Go to Catalog -> Catalogs
  Click the down arrow next to the + icon above the list of available catalogs.
  Click the down arrow next to Catalog in the menu and select Classification system from the available options.
  Enter the required details for your new classification system, and set the default status of the system using the radio buttons if required.
  Click Done.
  Results
  When you refresh the list by clicking Search, your new classification system appears in the list.

  Creating Classification System Versions
  Creating a classification system version is only possible in the context of a catalog. A classification system version cannot
   exist outside a catalog version.

  Procedure
  Log into Backoffice.
  Go to Catalog  Catalogs.
  Select the catalog in which we'd like to create a classification system version from the list of available catalogs and versions.
  Got to the Common tab in the catalog details.
  Click the arrow next to the Create new Catalog version field under Versions of this Catalog.
  Click the arrow next to Catalog version to expand the options.
  Select Classification system version.
  Enter the required details in the Create New Classification system version window that appears.
  Click Done.

  Creating Classifying Categories
  We can easily create a new classifying category in Backoffice Administration Cockpit.

  Procedure
  Log in to Backoffice.
  Go to Catalog -> Classification Systems -> Classifying Categories.
  Click + to open the Create New Classifying Category window.
  Enter an identifier name for the classification feature into the Identifier field.
  Select the classification system version from the Classification System Version menu.
  Click Done

  Classification Feature Value API
   We can use Classification System Api to manage Classification Attributes and Feature Value.


   Reference:
   https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_COMMERCE/d0224eca81e249cb821f2cdf45a82ace/8b74cb8186691014a19de16c7b468699.html



