Debugging in IntelliJIdea:

    Debugging is the process by which we check the issues in our code to detect them and find a proper way to resolve them.

    Line Break points are points which appear to the left of the code.If the breakpoint is kept at line n,the flow is stopped at line n-1.

    There is a button called ResumeProgram .If we keep the breakpoint in a particular line and keep another breakpoint in another line.It
    makes the program to execute between two breakpoints.

    There is a button called stepover.clicking on it the control goes to the next line.

    If there is a method call,the Stepinto button helps to get into the method and if we want to get out of that method stepout button is used.

    If there is a cascaded method call,smartstep option is used.

    Move to cursor option helps to jump over to a particular line and force move to cursor ignores the breakpoints in between.

    Variable section consists of all the variables used in the code. The Watch option in variable section is used to evaluate complex expressions
    which may be not even the part of the codefile itself.

    Evaluate Expression is used to evaluate a single object or variable and it gives the value of it
     whereas Watchover remains till the whole program execution.

    We can filter the arrays and collections in variable section or Watch section by filter option by providing a criteria to filter.

    Conditional Breakpoints are helpful in loops particularly.we can specify a condition by right clicking and clicking on filer so that
    we can fidn out at which point the error is occuring.

    Exception breakpoints are used in times when an exception is occured.we dont need to specify a partivular breakpoint if there is an exception
    say classcast Exception,by right clicking and clicking on view breakpoints ,we can add a particular exception that has occured an find out
    where the code went wrong.And we can click a checkbox called All exceptions and uncheck a checkbox called Caughtexceptions so that we can find
    out the cause of all exceptions.

    Method Breakpoints:When we declare a method ,we can keep breakpoint in the method declaration and we can create a new method breakpoint by
    clicking on view breakpoints and creating a new method breakpoints by providing the correct method and class name.

    Action Breakpoints:Sometimes we may need to evaluate something during the debugging session.By pressing shift and clicking left to the line creates
    action breakpoints are created.We can either notify that the program has hit the breakpoint or we can evlauate it by clicking on the corresponding
    checkboxes available.

    We can manage the breakpoints by adding ,removing ,enabling or disabling using the options available in view breakpoints.

    Force return: We can use Force Return to return an arbitrary value or we can return an exception by selecting the frame which is debugger
    ,right clicking on it and clicking ForceReturn.











